Rework Migrate section into Import and connect (#4323)
timescale/docs: migrate/import-data-using-terminal.md

---
title: Import data using the terminal
excerpt: 
products: [cloud, self_hosted]
keywords: [import]
---

import ImportPrerequisites from "versionContent/_partials/_prereqs-cloud-and-self.mdx";
import SetupConnectionString from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_import_setup_connection_strings_parquet.mdx";

# Import data into your $SERVICE_SHORT using the terminal

> You can import data into your $SERVICE_LONG using the command line. This page shows you how to import from CSV, MySQL, and Parquet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows you how to import data in CSV, MySQL, and Parquet files from a source machine into your $SERVICE_SHORT using the terminal.
```

> <Tabs label="Import data using the terminal">

Reviewer: persistKey please. Make sure this matches the ones in the console page.

<Tab title="From CSV">

> CSV is a file format that is widely used for data migration. This page shows you how to import data into your $SERVICE_LONG from a CSV file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CSV file format is widely used for data migration. This page shows you how to import data into your $SERVICE_LONG from a CSV file using the terminal.
```

## Prerequisites

<ImportPrerequisites />

- Install [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) v1.13 or later

- Install [timescaledb-parallel-copy][install-parallel-copy]

  [timescaledb-parallel-copy][parallel importer] improves performance for large datasets by parallelizing the import
  process. It also preserves row order and uses a round-robin approach to optimize memory management and disk operations.

  To verify your installation, run `timescaledb-parallel-copy --version`.

- Ensure that the time column in the CSV file uses the `TIMESTAMPZ` data type.

For faster data transfer, best practice is that your target $SERVICE_SHORT and the system
running the data import are in the same region.

## Import data into your $SERVICE_SHORT

To import data from a CSV file:

<Procedure>

1. **Set up your $SERVICE_SHORT connection string**

    <SetupConnectionString />

1. **Create a [hypertable][hypertable-docs] to hold your data**

>    Create a hypertable with a schema that is compatible with the data in your parquet file. For example, if your parquet file contains the columns `ts`, `location`, and `temperature` with types`TIMESTAMP`, `STRING`, and `DOUBLE`:

Reviewer: $HYPERTABLE
